To call in Spanish, so to call to somebody and also to make a phone call is Yamar
Yamar.
L L, and we said this double L creates a Y sound in most Spanish dialects, just like the Y.
Double L A-M-A-R.
Yamar.
Good.
And we said that in Spanish you don't tend to say my name is or I am called.
You say I call myself to introduce yourself.
So how would you say I call myself?
Meyamo.
Good.
And if you want to ask somebody what their name is, you can say how do you call yourself?
So let's do this informally.
How do you call yourself?
What was the word for how?
Komo.
How do you call yourself?
Komoteyamas.
Good.
How would you say how does she call herself?
What is her name?
Komoseyama.
Good, komoseyama.
Imagine you heard her name once before and you wanted to say what was she called?
How was she calling herself?
Good.
Komose Yamaba.
What was her name?
What was his name or what was your name formerly?
What was their name?
What were they calling themselves?
Good.
Come se yamaban good.
What was
to have, not in the sense of aber, not the have that we use to go into the past, but the have that we use for possession.
Tener.
Tener, good.
And we said also that this tener is the tain, tain that we get.
inside various English verbs or Latin English verbs like contain.
Contain is contener.
So we have this trick using tener that we can convert over some more verbs from English
So doing the same with obtain we would get.
Obtener.
Maintain changed a little bit.
Have a go.
Mantener.
We said that man actually is like from mano hand.
Sustain and this one changed a little bit as well.
Sostener.
So this tain that we have in English is tenair, to have.
So how would you say uh I used to have?
Tenia.
Tenia, good.
So if you wanted to say I used to have a big house.
Tenia un grande casa.
Un casa grande.
Yeah, almost, but unacasa grande.
These bits and pieces require a little thought as well.
We used to have a big house.
Teniamos una grande, una casa grande.
Good.
Teniamos una casa grande.
And the accent stays in the same place on the IA.
Tení, teníamos.
Good.
I used to have four, but now I don't have any left.
The word for four is cuatro.
Quatro.
Related to
Quarter.
Very good.
So I used to have four.
Tenia quattro.
Good.
But now
Pero ahora I don't have any left.
So they don't remain me or it doesn't remain to me.
That's all we need to say to give that I don't have any left.
Nomekeda.
Good, so altogether.
I used to have four, but now I don't have any left.
tenía quatro pero ahora no me queda good tenia quatro pero ahora no me queda o pero ahora no me queda you could use either
So we're not using have to give this meaning l have left.
How was I have in the present?
Tengo.
And how did you make that I have to?
I have to in the sense of I must.
So I have to see you and then speak informally.
Tengo que verde.
Good.
Now, if you want to say I had to see you, you can use this line in the past that we learnt, even though in English we're saying had, not
Having to, this is fine in Spanish.
So I had to see you, I was having to see you
Tenia que verte.
Good.
Yesterday is ayer.
A Y E R.
Ayer.
Good.
So I had to see you yesterday.
Tenía que ver de ayer.
Good.
Tenía que ver te ayer.
To do or to make was hacer.
H-A-C-E-A.
Did you have to do it yesterday?
Talking informally.
Good.
Then he has queh hacerlo ayer.
Didn't you have to do it yesterday?
Good.
No tenías que hacerlo ayer.
Didn't you have to do it yesterday?
Weren't you supposed to do it yesterday?
Good.
I want to look at just three irregular verbs that we have for this line in the past.
Now, this is a very irregular tense.
There are very few irregularities in this tense.
It's a very safe tense and the irregularities that we have are with very small verbs.
For example, ver.
How was I see from ver?
Veo.
Theo.
The same irregularity that we get in the I form in the present, veo, we get it in this line in the past.
So instead of taking off r and putting o
We ended up with this extra E.
So the is I was seeing, I used to see, he was seeing, he used to see, she was sing, she used to see, or youth woman, the
Give me the the other versions then uh we were seeing Veíamos Veíamos They or you guys
Theyan.
You inform?
Veyas.
Good.
Another irregular verb in this tense is ser.
Ser.
To be.
Now the base
For I, he, she, it, you fumble is era.
Era.
Now this is very easy to remember.
Because we are looking at the past, which is a line in time, and an era in English is a line in time in the past.
So we can just think of an era.
We would use this with characteristic things.
So for example, if you wanted to say I used to be a student, what was student?
Estudiante.
Good.
So how would you say I used to be a student?
Era studiante.
Era estudiante.
Good.
We don't need the word for a.
Were you a student?
Informally.
Eras studiante?
Good.
Eras studiante.
We were students.
Eramos.
Eramus.
Where are you putting the accent?
I couldn't then.
I put it at the a, at the amus, but it's eramos.
Eramos, good.
In these tenses the accent doesn't move around.
Good.
So era éramos.
We were students?
Eramos studentes.
Good.
What were they?
Ke eran.
Yeah, ke eran.
Good.
And then the last one, of course, that is irregularly stands is ear.
Ear to go.
Now I was going is kind of like a blend of the two different ways we have of creating this past, abba and ia.
I was going is Iba
So you see we got a bit of ia and a bit of abba with i.
I was going from to go iba so you can give me the other versions we were going
Ipamos.
Good.
They were going?
Ipan.
Good.
You were going informally?
Ipas.
Good.
Why were you going?
Now I is very useful because of course you can use it like in the English, I was going to call you, for example.
I was going to go but I didn't have the time.
I was going to do it but I forgot.
So you can use it in this way as well, which is very common.
So how would you say I was going to call you and we are talking informally?
I was going to call you.
Ipa Yamarte.
There's something missing.
Iba Yamarte.
Ipa I was I was going.
What kind of verb is going?
Iba a Yamarte.
Good.
I was going to do it.
Good, and I'm not sure here if you're putting the a to connect the verbs.
If I did it.
No, I didn't.
I forgot.
Okay, so again.
So actually in fluent speech you would hear iba serlo.
All of those three as iba a acer will blend together.
So that's why I wasn't sure if he said it or not.
We were going to do it or make it
Ibamos a hacerlo.
Good.
We were going to do them or we were going to make them.
I vamos a hacerlos.
Good.